
Importance of Data Transformation:
----------------------------------

  Improved data quality. Data transformation aims to increase quality of data
  as required by business use-case. Efficient data management. Data can be well
  organized and stored when transformed. Redundancy is eliminated during data
  transformation and only quality and useful data is stored. Increases data
  consistency. Data transformation standardizes data from different source
  systems to a common dataset with transformations defined by business rules.
  Quicker access to good data and faster decision making from the transformed
  data.



Types of Data Transformation:
-----------------------------

  Batch data transformation. This involves applying bulk data transformation
  process to data. Real-time data transformation. With emerging trend in
  real-time analytics real-time data integration and transformation is key in
  making the data available in real-time for analytics. Interactive data
  transformation. This involves using low-code no-code tools to perform data
  transformation. This technique allows users with less technical skills to
  perform ad-hoc transformation of their data for analysis.



Data Transformation Process:
----------------------------

  Data Discovery. This involves extracting and profiling the data to
  determine its structure and inform the initial transformations required.
  Data Mapping. Data mapping defines how individual fields should be modified
  and which operations and aggregation rules can be applied. Different
  operations can be defined here such as filter, split, join, remove
  duplicates etc. Code Generation. The process of data transformation
  involves defining rules for manipulating the data and results in creating
  of code (depending on the language used e.g. SQL, Python etc.) that needs
  to be executed to convert the data. Code Execution. This is the process of
  running the transformation code created to produce the output dataset. The
  execution process is usually integrated in the transformation (ETL/ELT)
  tool or the data storage engine such as database. Data Review. This
  involves checking if the transformation rules have been applied
  successfully.



Data Transformation Tools:
--------------------------

  Data Transformation process can be expensive, resource-intensive and complex.
  Careful consideration needs to be taken into place when planning for this
  process. Manual data transformation. This only applies when the data is too
  small, the business logic is too complex to automate or not available
  out-of-the-box from the transformation tool. Programming Languages.
  Programming languages such as SQL, Python, Java etc. are very powerful in
  data transformation and allows for definition of complex and custom functions
  easily. ETL/ELT Tools. At the core of ETL/ELT tools is the transformation
  capabilities. Most ETL/ELT tools comes with numerous transformation functions
  and capabilities. Check our previous here to learn about data integration.
  ETL/ELT tools can be classified into real-time or batch tools.
